Greetings
=========

Welcome to the documentation of the Python module ``mrpod`` for performing
Multiresolution Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (MRPOD) of multi-dimensional
data series (vector and scalar) obtained in turbulent flows.

Why ``mrpod``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Data-driven, modal-decomposition techniques such as POD (also known as the
Principle Component Analysis, PCA) and Dynamic Mode Decomposition (DMD) have
been widely implemented to extract periodic, coherent structures in turbulent
flows. In reacting flows such as confined turbulent flames (in gas turbines),
however, we are often confronted with both periodic (e.g., hydrodynamic and
acoustic instabilities) and non-periodic dynamics (e.g., flame lift-off,
flashback, and bistability), which can coexist over a wide range of time scales
and may even interact with each other. In their most rudimentary forms, POD and
DMD have proven insufficient at separating these dynamics while resolving their
temporal behaviors (such as discontinuities) at the same time. On the other
hand, by marrying the concept of wavelet-based Multiresolution Analysis (MRA)
with standard modal decompositions, multiresolution DMD ([MRDMD]_) and
multi-scale POD ([mPOD]_) have demonstrated robust capabilities at identifying
unsteady dynamics and discontinuities in time series. Based on a similar
concept, multiresolution POD ([MRPOD]_) has been developed by combining Maximum-
Overlap Discrete Wavelet Transform (MODWT) with conventional snapshot POD. MRPOD
has been successfully applied to time series of velocity (vector) and scalar
fields obtained by kHz-rate laser diagnostics (e.g., Particle Image Velocimetry
or PIV, Planar Laser-induced Fluorescence or PLIF) in the so-called bistable
turbulent swirl flame, a common phenomenon encountered in gas turbines.

Why MODWT
^^^^^^^^^

Bistable turbulent swirl flame
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

References
^^^^^^^^^^

..[MRDMD] Kutz, J., Fu, X., Brunton, S. Multiresolution dynamic mode
    decomposition. *SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems* 15 (2), 713-735,
    2016.

..[mPOD] Mendez, M. A., Balabane, M., Buchlin, J. M. Multi-scale proper 
orthogonal decomposition of complex fluid flows. *Journal of Fluid Mechanics* 
870, 988-1036, 2019.

..[MRPOD] Yin, Z., and Michael S. Timeâ€“Frequency Localisation of Intermittent
Dynamics in a Bistable Turbulent Swirl Flame. *Journal of Fluid Mechanics* 882,
A30, 2020.